forms/docs/01-installation.md, before:

---
title: Installation
---

## Requirements

Filament has a few requirements to run:

- PHP 8.0+
- Laravel v8.0+
- Livewire v2.0+

The form builder comes pre-installed inside the [admin panel 2.x](/docs/admin/2.x), but you must still follow the installation instructions below if you're using it in the rest of your app.

First, require the form builder using Composer:

```bash
composer require filament/forms:"^2.0"
```

## New Laravel projects

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iy1DO8JXRDQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

To get started with the form builder quickly, you can set up [Livewire](https://laravel-livewire.com), [Alpine.js](https://alpinejs.dev) and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) with these commands:

```bash
php artisan forms:install
npm install
npm run dev
```

> These commands will ruthlessly overwrite existing files in your application, hence why we only recommend using this method for new projects.

You're now ready to start [building forms](getting-started)!

## Existing Laravel projects

The package uses the following dependencies:

- [Alpine.js](https://alpinejs.dev)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)
- [Tailwind CSS Forms plugin](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss-forms)
- [Tailwind CSS Typography plugin](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/typography-plugin)

You may install these through NPM:

```bash
npm install alpinejs tailwindcss @tailwindcss/forms @tailwindcss/typography --save-dev
```

### Configuring Tailwind CSS

To finish installing Tailwind, you must create a new `tailwind.config.js` file in the root of your project. The easiest way to do this is by running `npx tailwindcss init`.

In `tailwind.config.js`, register the plugins you installed, and add custom colors used by the form builder:

```js
const colors = require('tailwindcss/colors') // [tl! focus]

module.exports = {
    content: [
        './resources/**/*.blade.php',
        './vendor/filament/**/*.blade.php', // [tl! focus]
    ],
    theme: {
        extend: {
            colors: { // [tl! focus:start]
                danger: colors.rose,
                primary: colors.blue,
                success: colors.green,
                warning: colors.yellow,
            }, // [tl! focus:end]
        },
    },
    plugins: [
        require('@tailwindcss/forms'), // [tl! focus:start]
        require('@tailwindcss/typography'), // [tl! focus:end]
    ],
}
```

Of course, you may specify your own custom `primary`, `success`, `warning` and `danger` colors, which will be used instead.

### Bundling assets

New Laravel projects use Vite for bundling assets by default. However, your project may still use Laravel Mix. Read the steps below for the bundler used in your project.

#### Vite

If you're using Vite, you should manually install [Autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer) through NPM:

```bash
npm install autoprefixer --save-dev
```

Create a `postcss.config.js` file in the root of your project, and register Tailwind CSS and Autoprefixer as plugins:

```js
module.exports = {
    plugins: {
        tailwindcss: {},
        autoprefixer: {},
    },
}
```

You may also want to update your `vite.config.js` file to refresh the page after Livewire components or custom form components have been updated:

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import laravel, { refreshPaths } from 'laravel-vite-plugin' // [tl! focus]

export default defineConfig({
    plugins: [
        laravel({
            input: [
                'resources/css/app.css',
                'resources/js/app.js',
            ],
            refresh: [ // [tl! focus:start]
                ...refreshPaths,
                'app/Http/Livewire/**',
                'app/Forms/Components/**',
            ], // [tl! focus:end]
        }),
    ],
})
```

#### Laravel Mix

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XslPKxtMR70" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

In your `webpack.mix.js` file, register Tailwind CSS as a PostCSS plugin:

```js
const mix = require('laravel-mix')

mix.js('resources/js/app.js', 'public/js')
    .postCss('resources/css/app.css', 'public/css', [
        require('tailwindcss'), // [tl! focus]
    ])
```

### Configuring styles

In `/resources/css/app.css`, import `filament/forms` vendor CSS and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com):

```css
@import '../../vendor/filament/forms/dist/module.esm.css';

@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

### Configuring scripts

In `/resources/js/app.js`, import [Alpine.js](https://alpinejs.dev), the `filament/forms` and `filament/notifications` plugins, and register them:

```js
import Alpine from 'alpinejs'
import FormsAlpinePlugin from '../../vendor/filament/forms/dist/module.esm'
import NotificationsAlpinePlugin from '../../vendor/filament/notifications/dist/module.esm'

Alpine.plugin(FormsAlpinePlugin)
Alpine.plugin(NotificationsAlpinePlugin)

window.Alpine = Alpine

Alpine.start()
```

### Compiling assets

Compile your new CSS and JS assets using `npm run dev`.

### Configuring layout

Finally, create a new `resources/views/layouts/app.blade.php` layout file for Livewire components:

```blade
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ str_replace('_', '-', app()->getLocale()) }}">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">

        <meta name="application-name" content="{{ config('app.name') }}">
        <meta name="csrf-token" content="{{ csrf_token() }}">
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">

        <title>{{ config('app.name') }}</title>

        <style>[x-cloak] { display: none !important; }</style>
        @vite(['resources/css/app.css', 'resources/js/app.js'])
        @livewireStyles
        @livewireScripts
        @stack('scripts')
    </head>

    <body class="antialiased">
        {{ $slot }}

        @livewire('notifications')
    </body>
</html>
```

You're now ready to start [building forms](getting-started)!

## Publishing configuration

If you wish, you may publish the configuration of the package using:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=forms-config
```

## Publishing translations

If you wish to translate the package, you may publish the language files using:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=forms-translations
```

## Upgrading

To upgrade the package to the latest version, you must run:

```bash
composer update
php artisan config:clear
php artisan view:clear
```

To do this automatically, we recommend adding these commands to your `composer.json`'s `post-update-cmd`:

```json
"post-update-cmd": [
    // ...
    "@php artisan config:clear",
    "@php artisan view:clear"
],
```

Commit message:

Add support command to all packages

forms/docs/01-installation.md, after:

---
title: Installation
---

## Requirements

Filament has a few requirements to run:

- PHP 8.0+
- Laravel v8.0+
- Livewire v2.0+

The form builder comes pre-installed inside the [admin panel 2.x](/docs/admin/2.x), but you must still follow the installation instructions below if you're using it in the rest of your app.

First, require the form builder using Composer:

```bash
composer require filament/forms:"^2.0"
```

## New Laravel projects

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/iy1DO8JXRDQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

To get started with the form builder quickly, you can set up [Livewire](https://laravel-livewire.com), [Alpine.js](https://alpinejs.dev) and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com) with these commands:

```bash
php artisan forms:install
npm install
npm run dev
```

> These commands will ruthlessly overwrite existing files in your application, hence why we only recommend using this method for new projects.

You're now ready to start [building forms](getting-started)!

## Existing Laravel projects

The package uses the following dependencies:

- [Alpine.js](https://alpinejs.dev)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com)
- [Tailwind CSS Forms plugin](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss-forms)
- [Tailwind CSS Typography plugin](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/typography-plugin)

You may install these through NPM:

```bash
npm install alpinejs tailwindcss @tailwindcss/forms @tailwindcss/typography --save-dev
```

### Configuring Tailwind CSS

To finish installing Tailwind, you must create a new `tailwind.config.js` file in the root of your project. The easiest way to do this is by running `npx tailwindcss init`.

In `tailwind.config.js`, register the plugins you installed, and add custom colors used by the form builder:

```js
const colors = require('tailwindcss/colors') // [tl! focus]

module.exports = {
    content: [
        './resources/**/*.blade.php',
        './vendor/filament/**/*.blade.php', // [tl! focus]
    ],
    theme: {
        extend: {
            colors: { // [tl! focus:start]
                danger: colors.rose,
                primary: colors.blue,
                success: colors.green,
                warning: colors.yellow,
            }, // [tl! focus:end]
        },
    },
    plugins: [
        require('@tailwindcss/forms'), // [tl! focus:start]
        require('@tailwindcss/typography'), // [tl! focus:end]
    ],
}
```

Of course, you may specify your own custom `primary`, `success`, `warning` and `danger` colors, which will be used instead.

### Bundling assets

New Laravel projects use Vite for bundling assets by default. However, your project may still use Laravel Mix. Read the steps below for the bundler used in your project.

#### Vite

If you're using Vite, you should manually install [Autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer) through NPM:

```bash
npm install autoprefixer --save-dev
```

Create a `postcss.config.js` file in the root of your project, and register Tailwind CSS and Autoprefixer as plugins:

```js
module.exports = {
    plugins: {
        tailwindcss: {},
        autoprefixer: {},
    },
}
```

You may also want to update your `vite.config.js` file to refresh the page after Livewire components or custom form components have been updated:

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'
import laravel, { refreshPaths } from 'laravel-vite-plugin' // [tl! focus]

export default defineConfig({
    plugins: [
        laravel({
            input: [
                'resources/css/app.css',
                'resources/js/app.js',
            ],
            refresh: [ // [tl! focus:start]
                ...refreshPaths,
                'app/Http/Livewire/**',
                'app/Forms/Components/**',
            ], // [tl! focus:end]
        }),
    ],
})
```

#### Laravel Mix

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/XslPKxtMR70" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

In your `webpack.mix.js` file, register Tailwind CSS as a PostCSS plugin:

```js
const mix = require('laravel-mix')

mix.js('resources/js/app.js', 'public/js')
    .postCss('resources/css/app.css', 'public/css', [
        require('tailwindcss'), // [tl! focus]
    ])
```

### Configuring styles

In `/resources/css/app.css`, import `filament/forms` vendor CSS and [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com):

```css
@import '../../vendor/filament/forms/dist/module.esm.css';

@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

### Configuring scripts

In `/resources/js/app.js`, import [Alpine.js](https://alpinejs.dev), the `filament/forms` and `filament/notifications` plugins, and register them:

```js
import Alpine from 'alpinejs'
import FormsAlpinePlugin from '../../vendor/filament/forms/dist/module.esm'
import NotificationsAlpinePlugin from '../../vendor/filament/notifications/dist/module.esm'

Alpine.plugin(FormsAlpinePlugin)
Alpine.plugin(NotificationsAlpinePlugin)

window.Alpine = Alpine

Alpine.start()
```

### Compiling assets

Compile your new CSS and JS assets using `npm run dev`.

### Configuring layout

Finally, create a new `resources/views/layouts/app.blade.php` layout file for Livewire components:

```blade
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="{{ str_replace('_', '-', app()->getLocale()) }}">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">

        <meta name="application-name" content="{{ config('app.name') }}">
        <meta name="csrf-token" content="{{ csrf_token() }}">
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">

        <title>{{ config('app.name') }}</title>

        <style>[x-cloak] { display: none !important; }</style>
        @vite(['resources/css/app.css', 'resources/js/app.js'])
        @livewireStyles
        @livewireScripts
        @stack('scripts')
    </head>

    <body class="antialiased">
        {{ $slot }}

        @livewire('notifications')
    </body>
</html>
```

You're now ready to start [building forms](getting-started)!

## Publishing configuration

If you wish, you may publish the configuration of the package using:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=forms-config
```

## Publishing translations

If you wish to translate the package, you may publish the language files using:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=forms-translations
```

## Upgrading

To upgrade the package to the latest version, you must run:

```bash
composer update
php artisan filament:upgrade
```

We recommend adding the `filament:upgrade` command to your `composer.json`'s `post-update-cmd` to run it automatically:

```json
"post-update-cmd": [
    // ...
    "@php artisan filament:upgrade"
],
```
